Welcome to fake users in this video.
You'll learn how to give your hair or fur colour.
Understand about fake users and how to use them.
And finally realize what the zero before anything in blender whether it's a brush whether it's immaterial
etc etc. or a particle system what that means.
So let's hop straight on over into a blender.
Okay so at the moment as you've seen when we render are lovely rabbits we dont get anything.
We just get this grey based material.
So on the particle system itself we're not seeing anything that's because we've got the eyes selected
we can see that in the outline.
So if I select the rabbit itself we'll get our settings back.
I'm going to drag this up so I can see what's going on further down.
Now here we have default material which is what it's set to at the moment.
But there are no other materials assigned to our rabbit.
So in order to make sure that we have hair on our rabbit we need to.
Whilst the rabbit object is selected give it a material in here so we could go here and as we can see
now we've created a material and we call this mat one.
And we can create as many materials against an object as we like solve.
Just click the plus there to duplicate that and do Mat too.
And we should see this dropdown we've got zero Matt 1 and 0 and just match to now the Zero means it's
not assigned to anything.
And if we decide at any point to save the file and shut it down whilst it's not assigned to anything
it means that it will actually just vanish completely So if you spent ages setting up a material then
you want to make sure that it's either assigned to something or assigned a fake user.
Now we looked at this a few lectures back in the material brush.
In the sculpting brushes we all had F's next to one another.
So for the moment if we want to have two materials there and make sure that we keep material one we
need to give it's a fake user how we've always done that is we've switched it across.
But if you hit the F key we see that there are now two users.
That's what this number 2 does.
It means there are two users that use material one which is confusing but not.
We've got the fake user and we've got the rabbit itself because it's assigned and if we go across here
and switch over to material to when we have a look at the materials again we can see material to is
actually assigned to this rabbit itself and the F material one is just assigned to a fake user so we
don't lose it.
Now the important thing is if you close blender sorry it only happens when you close blender so you
saved your file and close it down when you open up anything with a zero next to it will disappear.
Right so we've got two materials there and have we got two materials here.
No.
So there are not two materials on our rabbitte yet there are just two materials sat in the background.
So if I press plus and we can go to this dropdown and I know it's the other one material.
So we've got two materials in our on our object.
So now it's there when we hop over to our ball.
Let's just give them different colours that's give it green so we know what's going on and give it blue.
Okay so we've got a green material and the blue material.
Now when we go to our particle system and come up we can now see material one material two sitting there
and these particle systems are associated with that mesh as well.
So that's why these two materials have appeared on the material slots because both the material and
the particle system are both assigned to the rabbit.
So if we selected one of them and just switched over to rended mode we would see that we have a green
bunny.
Excellent.
So that's how we go about making sure that we have materials science so we've got two different materials
and of course you can have as many materials as you like and build them up in layers and we'll deal
with that later on with the node system.
But for now you can have as many materials as you like assigned against a particular object and then
actually use them.
And as you can see here we've still got f against our material one.
So it is there and it's stored.
Now if I click the cross here and get rid of it and go ahead and click on material once again you can
see it automatically reassigned and remembers.
Now if I hit the number two.
It duplicates that material.
Very very useful very powerful.
And of course when we're on material once again if I just hit F again it's unassigned.
That fake user that it had before.
Oh click here we see that we've got material one the duplicate of material one and material to and then
duplicate the material one actually has a zira against it.
So if I was to shut down blender and reopen it that material would not exist anymore or just disappear
as if it was never created.
And that is of course the primary reason why you would use a fake user if you did not want that material
to just evaporate into thin air.
The next time you opened up your blender file.
Okay guys it's Challenge time.
I'd like you to give the bunny coloured hair so give your bunny a skin colour and a hair colour.
You will need two different materials to do this and if you've been following along you'll actually
have the base ones to work with then sets the skin material as a diffuse the f type material and set
the hair material.
So there is actually a shade a specifically for hair in cycles hair b s the f.
So go ahead pause a video now and give that a go.
Okay guys.
Welcome back.
Let's hop back over into blender.
Okay so with our funky bunny here we're almost halfway there but I'm just going to run through it as
if we hadn't done that so we'd have our basic bunny here I'm just going to switch over the solids so
it's not so slow loading up.
So first of all we know we want to give this a bunny itself some materials.
So making sure that the object is selected we go to the materials tab in the properties window and we're
going to need two materials some skin to hit the plus twice.
We don't have any materials here so let's go ahead and create a new material.
And I'm going to call this material skin and that's going to represent the actual rabbit's skin.
Now we're not going to see this at first but if we ever parted the hair or perhaps some wind was blowing
I'd want to make sure it was a reasonable colour that I didn't actually know what colour rabbitskin
is.
So I'm going to go for a light pinky colour.
Now a good way of working out actually whether your hair is thick enough is actually to have completely
really wild colours so if I set this pink all the way down to this bright magenta.
If the hair wasn't thick enough I'll be able to see the magenta through it.
And I have no idea how to make it slightly thicker but I think the hair is going to be thick enough
in this case I'll just make it a lighter pink.
And it is diffuse be STF.
Now we can go in later and use the node editor to make this much more rich in terms of its materials.
But since it's not going to be seen I'm happy would leaving it like that.
So let's go ahead and this other material creates a new material and I'm going to call it fur for the
moment.
In fact I'm going to give it a name.
Brown fur.
Okay brilliant.
So now we have brown fur here.
I'm going to as you probably guess create some brown fur.
So Brown obviously is not on this colour well so the next question is where do I get the brown from
there.
Well there's a couple of ways you can do it.
I'm just going to do it by.
I am.
Hens themselves are actually quite light.
If you ever look at a hair under a microscope it's almost see through.
It's just the density of hairs that cause it to have a colour.
Now you will have to bear this in mind if you are creating hairs on a model because they're going to
the cycles engine is a physics space renderer when it comes to rendering.
If you have very dark fur it's going to look even darker than you intended it to.
So I'm going to set it as this orange colour for the moment and we're change this time to hair be STF
and I'm going to actually before I do anything further.
Going to move the camera around because I realize it's actually on the wrong side of our bunny So I'm
going to rotate that Z.
Oh that's rotating around there.
If we set the pivot points as the rabbits down here that's the pivot point has a 3-d cursor.
Now rotates long.
That said axis and look at it from this angle it should still be pointing at our bunny.
Let's just check.
Yes it is.
I'm going to move the camera about slightly and just zoom out ever so slightly there.
Okay.
So we've got that there.
Let's go in here.
Render and see how our bunnies looking at the moment.
I haven't signed any fluff so I should imagine it's not looking too great.
So we've got brown fur here and skin.
Great.
So let's go to the particle system down here.
And I was actually assigned it brown fur.
That was a bit of luck more than anything else.
And we've got something that's starting to look quite nice.
Okay brilliant.
Now you see what I was saying earlier I can see that the skin colours come through on the years as well.
So you can see I was saying earlier the hair is actually quite a light colour.
However when it goes when there's a whole load of it like there is here and this rabbit unfortunately
looks a bit like a brittle brush them home rather than a real rabbit.
We'll get to making that a bit better soon but you can see even though the colour is this really light
colour it comes out quite dark on a big bunch of it in fact if we go ahead and adjust this and make
it even lighter.
Bring it back down here so.
Or an orange.
Really really like that's almost like a light peach.
I'm going to get into colour questions here and render that out again.
We may end up with not quite as long as we thought it was here.
So I'm just interested actually to see how this comes out.
Wow.
Okay.
That's that's really interesting how that's come out how it's still dark brown in the middle and this
lighter colour round edge so you can see there that cycle's is actually doing a very very good job at
realizing well if you've got lots and lots of hair not very much light reaches in there or it gets absorbed
so you end up with a darker colour even though you started with this quite light colour.
Okay.
Some other things that I can see just looking at here.
We've got these we had highlights here.
I'm going to see whether those disappear later on when we start going over this model in a bit more
detail.
But otherwise that's looking quite good at the moment.
And if we have a quick look over here just finally in the properties window here down here we've got
our brown fur and skin assigned but these are original materials that were made earlier are still here
ready to use.
But the moment I go and save my file and reopen it.
So let's do that now just to re highlight that point and save my file and then um just go into open
recent and open our fluffy bunny says opened it up again.
And if we go back to the materials they are gone.
So please share your bunny in the discussions are love to see your combination of colours.
Have you gone wacky if you gone for a completely different style of bunny please share those in the
discussions and I will see you guys in the next lecture.